Added WPFGetting Started Guide (#661)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/gettingstarted/winforms.md

![app](./media/winforms-app.PNG)

## Step 5 - Navigation
Add the ability to allow users to change the URL that the WebView2 control displays by adding an address bar to the app. 

1.  In `Form1.cs` add the `CoreWebView2` namespace by inserting the following code snippet at the top of `Form1.cs`.  
    
    ```csharp
    using Microsoft.Web.WebView2.Core;
    ```
    
2.  In the **WinForms Designer**, double click on the `Go!` button. This should create the `goButton_Click` method in `Form1.cs`. Copy and paste the following snippet inside the function. Now, the `goButton_Click` function navigates the WebView to the URL entered in the address bar. 
    
    ```csharp
    private void goButton_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        if (webView != null && webView.CoreWebView2 != null)
        {
            webView.CoreWebView2.Navigate(addressBar.Text);
        }
    }
    ```  

Press `F5` to build and run your project.  Enter a new URL in the address bar, and click **Go**.  For example, enter `https://www.bing.com`.  Confirm that the WebView2 control navigates to the URL.  

> [!NOTE]

> > Make sure a complete URL is entered in the address bar. An `ArgumentException` is thrown if the URL does not start with `http://` or `https://`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Ensure a complete URL is entered in the address bar. An `ArgumentException` is thrown if the URL does not start with `http://` or `https://`
```

:::image type="complex" source="../media/navigation-events.png" alt-text="Navigation events":::
   Navigation events
:::image-end:::

When an error occurs, the following events are raised and may depend on navigation to an error page.  

*   `SourceChanged`  
*   `ContentLoading`  
*   `HistoryChanged`  

When there is an HTTP redirect, there are multiple `NavigationStarting` events.  

To demonstrate how to use these events, start by registering a handler for `NavigationStarting` that cancels any requests that do not use HTTPS.  

In `Form1.cs`, modify the constructor as shown below and add the `EnsureHttps` function.  

```csharp
public Form1()
{
    InitializeComponent();
    this.Resize += new System.EventHandler(this.Form_Resize);

    webView.NavigationStarting += EnsureHttps;
}

void EnsureHttps(object sender, CoreWebView2NavigationStartingEventArgs args)
{
    String uri = args.Uri;
    if (!uri.StartsWith("https://"))
    {
        args.Cancel = true;
    }
}
```

In the constructor, EnsureHttps is registered as the event handler on the `NavigationStarting` event on the WebView2 control.  

> Press `F5` to build and run your project. Confirm that when navigating to an HTTP site, the WebView **remains unchanged**. However, the WebView will navigate to HTTPS sites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select `F5` to build and run your project. Confirm that when navigating to an HTTP site, the WebView remains unchanged. However, the WebView will navigate to HTTPS sites.
```

## Step 7 - Scripting  

You may use host applications to inject JavaScript code into WebView2 controls at runtime.  The injected JavaScript applies to all new top level documents and any child frames until the JavaScript is removed.  The injected JavaScript is run after creation of the global object, and before any other script included in the HTML document is run.  

You can use scripting to alert the user when navigating to a non-HTTPS site.  Modify the `EnsureHttps` function so that it injects script into the web content using the [ExecuteScriptAsync]() method.  

```csharp
void EnsureHttps(object sender, CoreWebView2NavigationStartingEventArgs args)
{
    String uri = args.Uri;
    if (!uri.StartsWith("https://"))
    {
        webView.CoreWebView2.ExecuteScriptAsync($"alert('{uri} is not safe, try an https link')");
        args.Cancel = true;
    }
}
```  

> Press `F5` to build and run your project.  Confirm that the application displays an alert when you navigate to a site that does not use HTTPS.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select `F5` to build and run your project.  Confirm that the application displays an alert when you navigate to a site that does not use HTTPS.  
```

> ## Step 8 - Communication between host and web content  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 8 - Communication between the host and web content  
```

    
    ```csharp
    public Form1()
    {
        InitializeComponent();
        this.Resize += new System.EventHandler(this.Form_Resize);
        webView.NavigationStarting += EnsureHttps;
        InitializeAsync();
    }
    
    async void InitializeAsync()
    {
        await webView.EnsureCoreWebView2Async(null);
    }
    ```  
    
2.  After **CoreWebView2** is initialized, register an event handler to respond to `WebMessageReceived`.  In `Form1.cs` update `InitializeAsync` and add `UpdateAddressBar` using the following code snippet.  
    
    ```csharp
    async void InitializeAsync()
    {
        await webView.EnsureCoreWebView2Async(null);
        webView.CoreWebView2.WebMessageReceived += UpdateAddressBar;
    }
    
    void UpdateAddressBar(object sender, CoreWebView2WebMessageReceivedEventArgs args)
    {
        String uri = args.TryGetWebMessageAsString();
        addressBar.Text = uri;
        webView.CoreWebView2.PostWebMessageAsString(uri);
    }
    ```  
    

> 3.  In order for the WebView to send and respond to the web message, after `CoreWebView2` is initialized, the host:  
>     
>     1.  Injects a script to the web content that registers a handler to print message from the host.  
>     2.  Injects a script to the web content that posts the URL to the host.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  In order for the WebView to send and respond to the web message, after `CoreWebView2` is initialized, the host injects a script in the web content to:  
    
    1.  Send the URL to the host using `postMessage`.
    2.  Register an event handler to print a message sent from the host.  

```

> In `Form1.cs`, update `InitializeAsync` as follows:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Form1.cs`, update `InitializeAsync` as shown in the following code snippet.  
```

```csharp
async void InitializeAsync()
{
    await webView.EnsureCoreWebView2Async(null);
    webView.CoreWebView2.WebMessageReceived += UpdateAddressBar;

    await webView.CoreWebView2.AddScriptToExecuteOnDocumentCreatedAsync("window.chrome.webview.postMessage(window.document.URL);");
    await webView.CoreWebView2.AddScriptToExecuteOnDocumentCreatedAsync("window.chrome.webview.addEventListener(\'message\', event => alert(event.data));");
}
```  

> Press `F5` to build and run the app.  Now the address bar displays the URI in the WebView and when you successfully navigate to a new URI, the WebView alerts the user of the URI displayed in the WebView.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select `F5` to build and run the app.  Confirm that the address bar displays the URL of the site displayed in the WebView. Also, when you successfully navigate to a new URL, the WebView alerts the user of the URL displayed in the WebView.  
```

![finalapp](./media/winforms-finalapp.PNG)

Congratulations, you built your first WebView2 app!  

## Next Steps  

> There are plenty of WebView2 functionalities that are not covered in this walkthrough.  
> 
> To learn more:  
> 
> *   Please explore [API reference](../reference/dotnet/0-9-494-reference-webview2.md) for detailed information about each API.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on WebView2 features not covered in this walkthrough, see the [API reference](../reference/dotnet/0-9-494-reference-webview2.md).
```

## Getting in touch with the Microsoft Edge WebView team  

> Help build a richer WebView2 experience by sharing your feedback!  Visit the Microsoft Edge WebView [feedback repo](https://aka.ms/webviewfeedback) to submit feature requests or bug reports or search for known issues.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Help build a richer WebView2 experience by sharing your feedback!  Visit the Microsoft Edge WebView [feedback repo](https://aka.ms/webviewfeedback) to submit feature requests or bug reports, or to search for known issues.  
```
